(feat) Sentry MCP Documentation (#13524)
getsentry/sentry-docs: docs/product/sentry-mcp/index.mdx

---

> title: Sentry MCP Server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Sentry's MCP Server
```

Should this be possessive? It's a server that Sentry owns and maintains, correct?

sidebar_order: 120

> description: "A Model Context Protocol (MCP) server that provides a secure way of connecting IDE's and LLMs to Sentry issue debugging and analysis."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "Connect your Sentry data to popular AI clients using a Model Context Protocol (MCP) server that provides a secure way of connecting IDE's and LLMs to Sentry issue debugging and analysis."
```

I think it would be helpful to add this simple, high-level description of what we are offering here so that someone who isn't yet familiar with MCPs can get some context right off the bat.

---

<Alert>

>   The Sentry MCP Server is currently in **beta**. Beta features are still in progress and may have bugs. Please reach out on

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  The Sentry MCP Server is currently in **beta**. Beta features are still a work in progress and may have bugs. Please reach out on
```

  [GitHub](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-mcp/issues) if you have any feedback or concerns.
</Alert>

## Overview

> The[ Sentry MCP Server](https://mcp.sentry.dev) provides a secure way of bringing Sentry's full issue context into systems that are able to leverage the [Model Context Protocol (MCP)](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/introduction). Sentry offers a remote MCP server that is hosted and managed by Sentry, and designed for developers to connect to and leverage centrally. With the MCP, developers can:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The[ Sentry MCP Server](https://mcp.sentry.dev) provides a secure way of bringing Sentry's full issue context into systems that are able to leverage the [Model Context Protocol (MCP)](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/introduction). Sentry offers a remote MCP server that is hosted and managed by Sentry, and is designed for developers to connect to and leverage centrally. With the MCP, developers can:
```

> The[ Sentry MCP Server](https://mcp.sentry.dev) provides a secure way of bringing Sentry's full issue context into systems that are able to leverage the [Model Context Protocol (MCP)](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/introduction). Sentry offers a remote MCP server that is hosted and managed by Sentry, and designed for developers to connect to and leverage centrally. With the MCP, developers can:
> 
> - Access Sentry issues and errors
> - Search for errors in specific files
> - Query projects and organizations
> - List and create Sentry DSN's for projects
> - Execute autofix runs and retrieve autofix status and details 
> 
> ![Sentry MCP Server Query in Claude](./img/mcp-light-1.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Sentry MPC Server provides a secure way of bringing Sentry's full issue context into systems that are able to leverage the [Model Context Protocol (MCP)](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/introduction). Sentry offers a remote MCP server that is hosted and managed by Sentry, and designed for developers to connect to and leverage centrally. With the MCP, developers can:

- Access Sentry issues and errors
- Search for errors in specific files
- Query projects and organizations
- List and create Sentry DSN's for projects
- Execute autofix runs and retrieve autofix status and details 

See the full feature list [here](https://mcp.sentry.dev).

![Sentry MCP Server Query in Claude](./img/mcp-light-1.png)
```

It feels a little confusing to link to this doc (https://mcp.sentry.dev) while also generally copy/pasting the same info in our Sentry docs, without giving context. Here I'm suggesting moving the link down below the example list of things the MCP server can do.

## Getting Started

> Most clients that natively support MCP support configuration via a `mcp_config.json` file or an equivalent. In these systems, adding the server configuration to the file will setup an MCP server 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most clients that natively support MCP can be configured using a mcp_config.json file or an equivalent. In these systems, adding the server configuration to the file will setup an MCP server: 
```

```json
{
    "mcpServers": {
        "Sentry": {
            "command": "npx",
            "args": [
                "mcp-remote",
                "https://mcp.sentry.dev/sse"
            ]
        }
    }
}
```

> This configuration uses the Remote-MCP server configuration and allows most clients to connect to the Sentry MCP, authenticating via OAuth, and expose the available tools. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This configuration uses the Remote-MCP server configuration and allows most clients to connect to the Sentry MCP, authenticating via OAuth, and exposes the available tools. 
```

> Alternatively, if the Remote-MCP server is not desired, you can run the MCP Server locally in STDIO mode by following the instructions in the [README](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-mcp).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Alternatively, if you don't want the Remote-MCP server, you can run the MCP Server locally in STDIO mode by following the instructions in the [README](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-mcp).
```

Once configured via one of these methods, you'll be able to view the available tools within your client and use them as part of your LLM calls.

![Available Sentry MCP Tools](./img/mcp-tools.png)

## Example Calls 

- Tell me about the issues in my `project`
- Check Sentry for errors in `file.tsx` and propose solutions.
- Diagnose issue `issue id` and propose solutions.
- Create a new project in Sentry for `service-name` and setup local instrumentation using it.
- Use Sentry's autofix feature, and help me analyze and propose a solution for `issue id`.

![Sentry MCP using Autofix](./img/mcp-autofix1.png)

## Verified Clients 

> The Sentry MCP Server has been verified to work in 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Sentry MCP Server has been verified to work in: 
```

> The Sentry MCP Server has been verified to work in 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Sentry MCP Server has been verified to work in:
```

### Claude for Desktop 

By accessing the developer tools via `CMD + ,` -> `Developer` -> `Edit Config` -> edit the `claude_desktop_config.json` file

### Windsurf

Via the `Configure MCP` option in Cascade (CMD + L)

### Cursor

> Via the `Cursor` -> `Settings` -> `Cursor Settings` -> `MCP path` and editing the `mcp.json` file

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Via the `Cursor` -> `Settings` -> `Cursor Settings` -> `MCP` and editing the `mcp.json` file
```

Looks like the menu just says `MCP`.
